README.md, before:

# samurai

[![builds.sr.ht status](https://builds.sr.ht/~mcf/samurai.svg)](https://builds.sr.ht/~mcf/samurai)
[![GitHub build status](https://github.com/michaelforney/samurai/workflows/build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/michaelforney/samurai/actions)

samurai is a ninja-compatible build tool written in C99 with a focus on
simplicity, speed, and portability.

## Status

samurai implements the ninja build language through version 1.9.0 except
for MSVC dependency handling (`deps = msvc`). It uses the same format
for `.ninja_log` and `.ninja_deps` as ninja, currently version 5 and 4
respectively.

It is feature-complete and supports most of the same options as ninja.

## Requirements

samurai requires various POSIX.1-2008 interfaces.

Scheduling jobs based on load average requires through the non-standard, but
widely available `getloadavg` function. This feature can be disabled by
defining the `NO_GETLOADAVG` macro when calling the C compiler.

## Differences from ninja

samurai tries to match ninja behavior as much as possible, but there
are several cases where it is slightly different:

- samurai uses the [variable lookup order] documented in the ninja manual,
  while ninja has a quirk ([ninja-build/ninja#1516]) that if the build
  edge has no variable bindings, the variable is looked up in file scope
  *before* the rule-level variables.
- samurai schedules jobs using a stack, so the last scheduled job is
  the first to execute, while ninja schedules jobs based on the pointer
  value of the edge structure (they are stored in a `std::set<Edge*>`),
  so the first to execute depends on the address returned by `malloc`.
  This may result in build failures due to insufficiently specified
  dependencies in the project's build system.
- samurai does not post-process the job output in any way, so if it
  includes escape sequences they will be preserved, while ninja strips
  escape sequences if standard output is not a terminal. Some build
  systems, like meson, force color output from gcc by default using
  `-fdiagnostics-color=always`, so if you plan to save the output to a
  log, you should pass `-Db_colorout=auto` to meson.
- samurai follows the [POSIX Utility Syntax Guidelines], in particular
  guideline 9, so it requires that any command-line options precede
  the operands. It does not do GNU-style argument permutation.

[ninja-build/ninja#1516]: https://github.com/ninja-build/ninja/issues/1516
[variable lookup order]: https://ninja-build.org/manual.html#ref_scope
[POSIX Utility Syntax Guidelines]: https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/basedefs/V1_chap12.html#tag_12_02

Commit message:

Disable getloadavg support by default
Many platforms don't have getloadavg or hide it behind platform-specific
defines. Rather than try to work around it with an ifdef maze,
disable it by default. Builders can enable it by adding
`-D HAVE_LOADAVG` to their CFLAGS, along with whatever other defines
are needed for their platform.

README.md, after:

# samurai

[![builds.sr.ht status](https://builds.sr.ht/~mcf/samurai.svg)](https://builds.sr.ht/~mcf/samurai)
[![GitHub build status](https://github.com/michaelforney/samurai/workflows/build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/michaelforney/samurai/actions)

samurai is a ninja-compatible build tool written in C99 with a focus on
simplicity, speed, and portability.

## Status

samurai implements the ninja build language through version 1.9.0 except
for MSVC dependency handling (`deps = msvc`). It uses the same format
for `.ninja_log` and `.ninja_deps` as ninja, currently version 5 and 4
respectively.

It is feature-complete and supports most of the same options as ninja.

## Requirements

samurai requires various POSIX.1-2008 interfaces.

Scheduling jobs based on load average requires the non-standard
`getloadavg` function. This feature can be enabled by defining
`HAVE_GETLOADAVG` in your `CFLAGS`, along with any other necessary
definitions for your platform.

## Differences from ninja

samurai tries to match ninja behavior as much as possible, but there
are several cases where it is slightly different:

- samurai uses the [variable lookup order] documented in the ninja manual,
  while ninja has a quirk ([ninja-build/ninja#1516]) that if the build
  edge has no variable bindings, the variable is looked up in file scope
  *before* the rule-level variables.
- samurai schedules jobs using a stack, so the last scheduled job is
  the first to execute, while ninja schedules jobs based on the pointer
  value of the edge structure (they are stored in a `std::set<Edge*>`),
  so the first to execute depends on the address returned by `malloc`.
  This may result in build failures due to insufficiently specified
  dependencies in the project's build system.
- samurai does not post-process the job output in any way, so if it
  includes escape sequences they will be preserved, while ninja strips
  escape sequences if standard output is not a terminal. Some build
  systems, like meson, force color output from gcc by default using
  `-fdiagnostics-color=always`, so if you plan to save the output to a
  log, you should pass `-Db_colorout=auto` to meson.
- samurai follows the [POSIX Utility Syntax Guidelines], in particular
  guideline 9, so it requires that any command-line options precede
  the operands. It does not do GNU-style argument permutation.

[ninja-build/ninja#1516]: https://github.com/ninja-build/ninja/issues/1516
[variable lookup order]: https://ninja-build.org/manual.html#ref_scope
[POSIX Utility Syntax Guidelines]: https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/basedefs/V1_chap12.html#tag_12_02
